---
title: "Blogging in 2020"
date: 2020-06-12T19:09:24-07:00
draft: false
description: Just after the turn of the century, we blogged—a lot. Why did we ever stop? For one, it got harder. The tools got better, but mostly worse. 
tags: 
    - life
    - covid19
    - coronavirus
    - family
    - love
    - pets
    - quarantinediaries
    - blog
permalink: /2020/06/12/blogging-in-2020
layout: post.njk
---

Why don't we blog anymore? I don't know.

In 2003, I certainly was, and I had been for a while. I started my blog on Greymatter CMS, then Movable Type. At some point, B2, then Wordpress. Blogger got sold to the Borg (Google); LiveJournal.. what happened to them? They were so cool. Tumblr felt inane to me, an Internet grump by that time. And then we just gave up. I did, anyway.

For a long time, it felt like the ability to post anything online was going to *change the world*. In so many ways it has. The jury is still out on whether that's a net positive. It certainly isn't the runaway democratic success we all imagined. Big media chased the sexiest things on the web, which instantly made it no longer so. Tech companies we adored grew into gargantuan beasts that disappointed us, more and more. Software ate the world, and then spat it all out, without masticating. 

I was certainly not immune.

Sat rapt by the beauty of technology intersecting with a rapidly changing world, brought closer together by low cost airlines and closed quickly by new age fascist dictators, I don't know if I've really had a moment to breathe, or think, in the last decade. Most of the blame falls squarely on my profession of choice: for a while, those of us somewhat proficient in the use of computers believed that we could change the world with... *computers*. Our children may laugh at that naïveté. 

At 35, I care about many different things now. As an immigrant, my ability to say *F-everything* has reduced by magnitudes. I feel like everything has changed, but I am still the same person. Maybe a little bit emo, maybe a little bit brash. 

Most of all, I feel like writing again. So here goes, again.