---
title: What I'm Up To (June 2025)
tags: 
  - now
date: 2025-06-27
layout: 'post.njk'
---

### Building a new website

I am working on a new website to feature my marine and nature photography and writing. It's also a way for me to learn [11ty's new features](http://11ty.dev/).

### Gave a talk at North Bay Python

In April 2025, I gave a talk at North Bay Python just outside Petaluma, CA. I talked about my experience leaving 'tech' for 'fin tech' (at the Monterey Bay Aquarium). [Blog post here](/posts/my-talk-at-north-bay-python/). 

### Spoke at an all staff meeting

I was asked to speak about my experience with my many intersectional identities, at a work all-staff meeting. [Post and slides here](/posts/intersections).

### AI red team / ethics work

I was lucky to have been able to spend the last 9 months working on various aspects of AI ethics, red team work and research. This is a core area of my academic and professional interest at the moment. I don't write about that much but this [newsletter post captures more relevant information](https://news.publicsectorai.tech/archive/public-sector-ai-try-ai-in-the-public-interest/) about what I got up to in this space.

### In-laws' visit

Sabrena's family visited from France. We spent a lot of time together but I was especially proud to be able to plan a [whale watching trip](/photos/whale-watching/) and aquarium visit with them.

### June gloom and doom

Here in Monterey and San Francisco, we are in a foggy and cold-ish time of the year. It is not unexpected (this happens every year!) but it feels especially relevant given that we are now officially _unable to leave_ this country due to something known as 'adjustment of status'. This is usually a thing that _bodes well_ because it means we are one step closer to some degree of 'stability' (with regards to 'immigration'). But at this point, everything feels _meh_. I am relieved, but I am also feeling all kinds of _meh_.