---
title: What I'm Up To (January 2025)
tags: 
  - now
date: 2026-01-19
layout: 'post.njk'
---

This is a jumbo sized update, because lots of things have happened.

### Sea Life

I work at an aquarium now!

I started a ridiculously cool gog at the Monterey Bay Aquarium, where I am building their first product management team. There's a lot to do, the people are wonderful, the animals are fun, the environment is delightful. I've been keeping track of some of the things that give me joy here ([text-only Mastodon thread](https://hachyderm.io/@skinnylatte/113442659228151232)) and here ([photos mostly](https://hachyderm.io/@skinnylatte/113431347101858937)). If I may say so myself, the photos are lovely.

I spend half my week out there, which I honestly don't mind. I go to the aquarium any time I want (which is, all the time). I am surrounded by marine puns all day. 

It's funny this happened, because back in May I started listening to marine biology and deep sea ocean research podcasts whenever I was running. I thought, 'wonder if there are any cool jobs at the Monterey Bay Aquarium for me?' Turns out, they did.

Kismet.

### We said goodbye to Cookie

Cookie, the love of my life, [passed on in June 2024](/posts/cookie-the-cavalier/). She was 14 years and 8 months. [This Mastodon thread](https://hachyderm.io/deck/@skinnylatte/112293528048638569) celebrates my life with her. In time, I may want to publish a little memorial photo book.

### Sabrena graduated

My wife, Sabrena, graduated _summa cum laude_ from SF State University in psychology! Back to work for her though, as she also started her Masters in Clinical Psychology shortly after. I am incredibly proud of her. What an achievement

More to come, hopefully I'll update these pages more frequently!

### Working on a book

I am writing a book! "Product for the People: A Guide to Building Mission-Driven Digital Services in Government and Nonprofit Organizations"

Too often, many product management books are about maximizing profit. Well, that's important, but people are important too. So I'm writing a book about that. More details soon!